e
e e
good grief this
OBS see if I can hear
myself audio check
one there's the old man good morning
folks how are you
so we're back at it again here so let's
see
uh see what we got here there's nothing
really to speak up because we
have a basically an
empty Monday and Tuesday economic
calendar later in the week we have PPI
and CPI number so they're face
rippers haveit a bit of a
premium premium uh gap opening here
so that's where we're at here with
that just going to use the FIB here make
it a little
easier and the open up
here I'm going add these back
on all right so mid Gap is way down here
these two levels here I did a little bit
of
uh needling on
social media last
l so we
have the
weekly inversion fair value Gap in here
I'm allowing it to try to reach for that
see if it can get up in there tap into
that and see if they'll
uh let it run a little bit lower after
that into the gap
drop down a 15 time
frame notice that the bottom of that
Weekly inversion fa gu
here also
has that little
tiny separation
between that candle's low this candle's
high so that is a
siy so you want to have that annotated
on your
chart there we're just hitting it
now I'd very much prefer
hitting the weekly inversion fair value
gap before selling off otherwise I'd
have
to let it have another chance that to
run
there not chasing
[Music]
anything do you have fun this weekend
I
did all right so here's a one minute
chart we have not
had any
uh first presentation fa Gap yet there
is one obviously on that
uh 15sec
chart that's uh right here so you want
to annotate that I'm going to keep it
off my chart now because there's are a
little too much stuff on the chart for
my liking
this is all stuff from
uh me
needling Twitter last
night hopefully I've inspired a a bunch
of you live streamers out here or those
that don't live
stream to come out here and play in the
sandbox with us
Okay small one right in
here small little fair I got
got a chance to sleep in today actually
trying to get some rest for tonight's uh
London live stream so I promised the uh
the Forex
gang that we would look at the some
London stuff I I'll look at Futures too
during the London
session it's not just uh Forex but I
promise I would ring in some of that
insight into this mentorship we're only
going to go till 10:30 this morning I
have to take care of something at the
bank some
uh fraudulent
activity check your bank statements
folks if you see somebody going in and
giving you like 30 36 Cents or 17 cents
and then taking it back out that's them
testing to see if money can come in and
out cuz somebody just took $77,000 of
money that they don't have ownership of
that's okay
all right so I want to see it run up
into that Weekly inversion Fair B Gap in
that orange shaded area that would also
be another run above these highs in here
it's a little too blocky in here too
Consolidated even though it is a
15-second chart you want to see some
kind of uh disruption to the
outside that's actually now on the right
Paras it should be
[Music]
there so a little lackluster so far this
morning nothing terribly exciting for uh
the opening range opening range is
between 9:30 and 10 o' eastern time and
the opening range Gap is previous day
settlement that's the close
here to the open the very first print at
9:30
so when you have uh your economic
calendar with the PPI and CPI number and
all you have to do is go to
forexfactory.com or Econo day
calendar or any other you know decent
calendar they'll they'll show that those
uh reports are this like this week
Wednesday and
Thursday and then
uh there's an absence of any real news
drivers on Monday and Tuesday you want
to try to find your
trades you if you're going to try to
trade and avoid all of the the the huge
volatility that is
introduced by those reports you simply
just trade on the the Monday and Tuesday
of this week not to say you can't Trade
Post PPI and CPI number because I
certainly will
be all right we just touch the bottom of
that inversion fair value
Gap again that's this up here okay
nice little reaction so far it's
probably
random I'm going to show the uh the mid
Gap and have a little bit more real
estate in the size of these candles
sh again mid Gap is here for the opening
range Gap
watching the breaker here on the one
minute chart the short-term High higher
high this down close candle I'm watching
how we behave and print around
that I'm going to apologize in because
we're entering the time of year where I
have Fall allergies and it's unfortunate
I can't do anything about it because I'm
not going to take medicines but the
uh clearing of my throat unfortunately
might be a little bit distracting for
some of
you you would get on my nerves I know if
I was listening to someone else s like
that just don't leave the comments CU
I'll just broom me I don't ever say your
comment ever again you get just say it
one time you can say anything you want
one time
see how flat price is right
now yes it went up to a level we were
looking for an anticipating but it's
just like not trying to do
much even the 15
second we're inside the Cy here there
shoulder
block not enough energy did a downside
to to get me interested
yet
meaning you like that what do you mean
by that the short-term low here the
Wicks came down and we had two of
them so it's not something that has me
all that terribly excited meaning we
could see one more punch into this High
a little bit higher than that then we'll
have to see what the uh what the
delivery is after that just relax
there's plenty of setups this week
coming plenty of
them you need to rush out the gate to
get the first one that comes in the
first 10 20 minutes not on a not on a
Monday not with a week like we're
getting ready to
see I see all kinds of
movement if you come out here and you
you waste your ammo and your mental
fortitude
on less than optimal
conditions it just makes it harder for
you to be in when the markets are really
given out for
free well maybe I shouldn't say for free
but a lot a lot more easier uh price
delivery a lot more fluctuations and
prices you can work and navigate
in again this chart over here is a 15sec
chart here
and one minute chart
on the
right got a lot of comments from
uh The annotation
markups I'm teaching my son to
do and of course I have a few other ones
that are saying things like uh this is
tedious it's not necessary well I mean
if you're already profitable and you
know what you're doing you then buy all
means do what you got to do but for
people that don't how to reprice action
um I would event you to say the ones
that say that they don't journ they
probably aren't as precise or consistent
as they like to pretend they are on
social
media but the way you get better at it
and learn how to see the things that I
teach and execute on you see
executions uh
those intricate details that I'm showing
in my markups for Caleb's
Channel we got this week and next week
and then uh he'll have enough for him to
have conversation with me in the
videos he has to learn some things first
otherwise it's going to be a lot of
grunts like you see that son
mhm which isn't all that uh
engaging see you want to want to
kind of like note any kind of anxiety
you're feeling right now or any kind of
un unwavering excitement about wanting
to be in something right
now that's us are not aware of what
you're looking for you're just trying to
like a
dog like at my wife she takes the the
food bowls out as soon as they hear the
metal clinking
together they me drop whatever they're
doing and they're like okay I got I got
to I got to get run in here and get
something and that's usually what fomo
feels like for a Trader that doesn't
have a model doesn't know what they're
looking for and just because these
candlesticks are you know flicking up
and down there's no setup here yet so
you just have to sit still let it come
to
you one of the best exercises you can do
for yourself is to physically sit still
the first 30 minutes even if there is an
ideal setup that you may identify or
recognize sit still don't do anything
engage price after 10 o00 and do that
for a few months and just
really take inventory on how you feel
are you feeling impulsive are you
feeling
Reckless you feel like you want to
gamble those are wonderful observations
to discover about yourself early on
before you start trading with real money
because these those are the very
characteristics that will undo
you and prevent you find from finding
success but not enough's been taught
about it I mean Mark Douglas book and
other people have touched very very
lightly on trade psychology and what
what are catalysts for people to go on
tilt how do you prevent it what skill
sets do you have to develop and muster
before
uh before you end up in that situation
where you have
regret and it's by journaling and tape
reading and anytime you feel impulsive
anytime you feel impulsive or anxious
that you're afraid you're going to miss
something take a screenshot of the chart
take a screenshot of it and then
annotate that with you know simple words
like anxious feeling re feeling
impulsive and then at the end of the
session what would that be like for
index trading it' be noon New York local
time and then look and see what price
did actually after that moment and
you'll see many times what you were
fearful of that you were going to miss
wasn't even in the chart at all and it
desensitizes your
whole like this Pursuit I got to catch
something I got to catch something it
goes away after you've conditioned
yourself this say look I've been here
before it's just me wanting to do
something even on the 15sec chart which
usually is very very fluid for me I can
find a lot of setups on it's still
just just like a pick a
fence the neighbor that doesn't take
care of his
yard it's all tattered looking in
here I'd like to see it displaced lower
here admittedly I'd like to see that
because we have now had a
body come down below the breaker which
is this down closed candle here I'd
prefer to see it start to make a move
lower and work towards these lows
here because if we can get between here
let me outline
it because if we can go between this
low and the upper quadrant of the
opening range gap which is here
I'd like to see some kind of U Move
lower here and then either on the one
minute chart or the 15-second chart
create a fair Bay Gap to watch price
trade up into and then try to make a run
into
midgap that's all I would look for for
today and then if it wants to close more
of the gap or go higher you know so be
it but when I'm looking at price and I I
want to kind of frame up a setup that
I'm willing to sit and wait for uh
that's what I would be looking for today
I would not be interested in chasing it
going higher we have too much of a gap
opening higher uh they're building a
huge
premium and we're taking it back to a
weekly objective which is
that orange shaded box up here all that
range is a weekly inversion fair value
gy and it's it's it's big so so I I
don't want to
be up in here you trying to go long
after we've opened up with such a large
gap
opening I'm much more comfortable
waiting for it to
uh price in whatever premium it wants to
put in price I'm not willing basically
to pay a exorbitant price for Nasdaq
especially on a day that there's
no no news until we get to Wednesday and
Thursday so that's a little bit better
delivery see how the the bodies are like
buted up in at the bottom of it and not
just a
wick that's what I saying about the uh
the break over here I didn't like that
there because while it did go below it
U when we have such a a premium opening
meaning that this is where Friday
settlement price is here and the first
print at
9:30 the opening
bell that's your
first traded price the difference
between that is so
large it's already built in an expensive
price so I'm not willing to to buy that
and I'm comfortable letting it go it's
like anything else you if it's not your
price you're not going to pay for it if
you know you can get it cheaper if you
just wait a little
while well that's what trading should be
like I pay more for something you can
get cheaper later on with less risk with
better visibility right now you're
you're trading inside of just one event
of where we opened
up so now think about what I was talking
about earlier about the breaker because
we had these two Wicks down here it
didn't show any kind of uh displacement
lower it just reached down just a a
little bit below it and because of that
I was telling you we're probably going
to see one more Drive above this into
that Weekly inversion fair value Gap
then we had this delivery here and this
is a one minute chart here so it was
nice to see it deliver that body now
leaving these kind of Wicks inside the
inversion fair value Gap and if it runs
below that's a little bit more a lot
more meaningful meaning that this
Candlestick
here treat that same down closed candle
as I was looking at that initially here
I wanted to see how we behaved when
price traded to its low now this is
a p of interest for me at that candle's
slow because we have
what we have the high
here this swing low and we ran up into
that Weekly inversion fa you got we
budded up against the bottom of it with
that candlestick's
body indecisive candle body saying no
I'm not really interested open Wick into
it here and we're showing initial signs
that it may want to drop there's a gap
in here I'd like to see it get below
that and show signatures of inversion on
that and how we drive un under here and
it may not I'm just saying that that's
what I'm observing I get a lot of
questions you what am I looking for what
am I waiting for how do I frame a setup
what determines the setup um most of
which is how we
open if I'm trading the morning session
how we open in relationship to the
previous day's settlement price which is
4:15 Eastern
Time p.m. and
then the
afternoon I'm not so much you know
concerned about the saying things that
uh the morning session provides me
there's other things like I'm looking at
how we trade in the afternoon lunch I'm
not so much you know concerned about the
same things
I just turned my headphones on sorry
about that you got that feedback
on but I I look
for things to frame price runs that make
sense so since we gapped up
here and have a large gap below us from
Friday's close at
4:15 any movement below here sets the
stage for a potential trade to half of
the Gap so the rules I'd live by is 70%
of the time that half Gap price level
gets traded to and repriced to in the
first 30 minutes of trading 70% of the
time is not 100% of the time so because
we have the economic calendar as we have
this week where Monday and
Tuesday's kind of like blank it doesn't
have a whole lot of
uh
um reason to do anything yet except for
building a big premium for PPI and CPI
number to run against this so in my mind
that that's how I'm interpreting this in
case you're probably wondering what that
is like what do I think is going to
happen this week I think all of this is
just you know them going against last
week's big
drop and going up into a logical level
which that Weekly inversion Fair Gap
that's that orange shaded area I'm
watching this
15c Gap right
here it's also a breaker have high low
higher High inside the inversion for
got the
um the absence of anything on the
economic calendar Monday and
Tuesday forces me and or forces a price
action Trader to demand that price be
clean
versus I can I can engage with a little
bit sloppier price action if there has
been something released at like 8:30 or
if it releases at at 10:00 some kind of
economic news driver something some kind
of report or something basically like a
smoke screen that's what I call it an
injection of volatility it's an
invitation for people to come to the
watering hole okay so we don't have that
today and we don't have that tomorrow so
the best thing you can do as a Trader
and put this in your Journal as well and
you'll probably save yourself a whole
lot of heartache and draw down and
probably blend the C
but the the absence of anything on the
economic counter that means that you
must absolutely see clean price action
just because you have a high impact or
medium impact news driver does not mean
you're going to have clean price action
you can have really wild back and forth
price action and if if that's the case
then you don't trade that either so it's
a lot of knowing when not to do
something because just because you walk
in the kitchen and something smells good
and you think that it's safe to touch
that handle on that pot you don't really
know
and like a child you I've had this
happen to me and my CH my children have
done this too they reach up and they
touch something and they get burned but
they don't ever do that ever again but
you don't get that luxury sometimes in
trading sometimes you can blow the
account and you may not be able to trade
again until you fix what was required to
restore all
that so demanding uh Clarity and what
you're looking for for the setups and
just letting it go
Just Let It Go which is what an adult
perspective would be I want to grab that
pot and turn it around here so I can
take a look and see what's inside this
pot an adult would say Where's that pot
holder at let me grab that because I
ain't trying to get burned here and then
I can find out what I want to see what
are they doing they're
deferring their Interest being satisfied
with protection well in trading price
action when there's really nothing going
on yet that is all that exciting
these are the things I do I wait and I
demand price give me what I would rather
see and that's unfortunately a skill set
that wasn't there in the beginning for
me like I was impulsive Reckless and
fearing I was going to miss
everything don't make sense don't do
it for
Daniel's hearing the snap at the water
bottle thinking bro I mailed you a Yeti
and you're still drinking out of the
water
bottle I was short on time okay I had to
hurry up and get things set
up all right so now think about what
we've had so far this morning large
range Gap open
opening that's this price here from
previous day's
opening I'm sorry previous day's
settlement down here on Friday we had a
short-term High form here a short-term
High formed here short-term High formed
here and once more up here whenever
price is doing that it's usually
indicative of them engineering liquidity
even though the the moves aren't as
pronounced as I'd prefer them to be uh
that could be very much what we're
seeing here where
by creating these little tiny short-term
highs everybody wants to fill the Gap I
mean that's that's trading 101 if you
know anything about trading the opening
session over the very few minutes of
trading the gaps they have a magnetic
effect on price action but not all the
time not all the time they can stay open
for days it could it could leave that
Gap entirely open for
days this because there's a gap doesn't
mean it's 100%
probability it's going to fill it but
what I like to see is if it's doing
things like this where it creates highs
and they keep taking those Highs but
it's not really running aggressively and
showing big you amounts of
uh price
runs it's just going enough to take out
the previous highs it's going just
enough to take out the previous highs so
to me when I see that stuff I I think
that okay someone is taking the other
side of that high being taken
out and when I see those types of things
forming in price action I start telling
myself if this is what I think it is
then it should start to show speed after
taking the the most recent swing High
which is this one
here we're a little bit deeper inside of
that Weekly inversion fair value G so
I'm waiting to see do I get that strong
drop down because I don't want to sell
into these highs here like I don't I
don't personally want to do that because
they could just keep building this and
building this and building this and I
don't think we're going to be here later
in the week like I think we could be
lower
so the absence of any kind of economic
data Monday and Tuesday and then you
have that big storm of volatility that's
going to come with PPI and CPI number
where like you can't safely trade them
in advance because they're wild like
they're immediate repricing and they're
aggressive and they can hurt you very
very very bad if you're offside on
something like that you're getting
crushed and there's no helping there's
no saving you it's just you're you're
done for so it's better for that report
to come out and then give it a few
minutes 15 20 minutes and then see
what's left for liquidity or
inefficiency here I think what they're
doing is they're just retracing it
against what we saw on Friday I don't
think we're going to see the entire
range of Friday
overtaken there's a a large pool of
liquidity let's go
into oops a daily
[Music]
chart see these lows
here it's an election year and I think
we're going to see a lot of volatility
around the end of uh second half of of
October and then obviously going into
the rest of the year but I don't see us
going back over top of Friday's range
there's no reason to do that but we can
dig deeper into this weekly inversion
fair value gap which you see
here this
is It's a separation between this
Candlestick low this candle high so it's
just inside of this after dropping a lot
on Friday it's it's reasonable to
anticipate a retracement on Monday
morning like that it's reasonable to
anticipate there's going to be a large
range gap opening higher a premium gap
opening that's normal that's a normal
expectation for someone that's been
studying and and familiar with price
action
but you have to be cautious because this
is a lot of range just to get to the
midpoint of that which is
here so it you trading to 791 it could
trade another 100 points higher and I
don't want to try to be aggressive and
try to sell short because I think I'm
seeing oh they ran buy stop so now it's
going to reject low I got to see other
things and when I'm watching how prices
are creating these short-term highs I'm
weighing out how does it deliver after
it does it is it is it quickly trying to
get away from it because if it's not
then it's probably going to keep
pressing higher and you don't want to
try to sell short on a day where it's
just even even though there's a large
range gap opening and everybody wants to
see the Gap fill like that's the natural
tendency for people that want to trade
or day trade they they want to see this
Gap fill in they want to see
that but what if it doesn't and you just
keep trying to sell short I've done that
as a 20-year-old I did a lot of that in
the bond market when I was first TR I
traded
caught that mute button just in
time had to sneeze sorry about
that so one of the best things you can
learn how to do Caleb is to just sit
still learn to just be very very still
don't uh don't try to rush to do
something
you make more money doing little or less
and you certainly keep profits longer by
doing
less doesn't sound like it should be
like that but that's exactly what it's
it's the truth
okay I like what we're seeing
here so we had this High take out that
one and this High here failed we broke
lower below here and then we're seeing
the bodies even on the 15sec chart
respect the lower portion of that
inversion Fair Val you got so that takes
my attention back into the one minute
chart
[Music]
learning to manage the fear of missing
out is
like it's it's hard folks like it is
hard there's really no way around it
that makes it easier or faster you just
got to sit out here and watch price
action and even if you can't watch it
live you pay for like I use Camtasia by
techsmith I've used them since
2012 when I first started making videos
um I think it's an easy program to use
and if you want to record price action I
mean obviously while I'm live streaming
you can you can look at what I'm showing
you here but eventually you're going to
want to do this on your own and have a
log of your own charts I'm watching the
wick
here the midpoint of that I'm watching
if there's any sensitivity around that
the
uh the recording of the key time frames
that you want to
watch having that information when you
come home from work or or if you can't
be awake like when I'm doing the live
streams but you want to still learn how
to do this there's nothing better than
watching the actual candlesticks paint
and create the uh the the full range
like every fluctuation of every single
price tick you need to that you cannot
and I mean this wholeheartedly I know
some of you just love that market Replay
that market replay is like a
mirror meaning that when you look in the
mirror and you look at yourself you
think you see what everyone else sees we
don't see that we see the and then when
you see a reflection of your reflection
in a mirror that means the actual
perspective that everyone around you
sees it's a little shocking all of a
sudden you discover your nose is a
little bit crooked one ear looks a
little bit lower or higher than the
other
it's like what is going on here but
that's how everyone's always saw you but
you see yourself in the mirror as you
the reflections image well Market replay
is the same
thing you're looking at price with only
two
fluctuations watch and see when you look
at trading views Market replay it shows
you one tick and then boom it settlement
one tick and boom in settlement so it's
too wooden it's too stilted it's it's
it's not it's not going to give you the
same experience which is necessary
because if you train yourself to look at
these very very
static Candlestick formations that are
seen by watching it go through Market
replay it gives you a false sense of
security and you don't have the ability
to see when the candles are going up and
down up and down and every time it
creates it looks like it's finished it
ain't going to make a big
portion of the candle and it does so you
don't have that effect in Market replay
so the best thing you can do is record
your your charts with live price feed
it's a little bit of an investment and I
know some people are say I can't afford
that then you can't trade I mean I don't
know how else to say it but you that's
just the way it is then you can't trade
because if you can't afford to get the
resources and tools you don't hate me or
anyone else that tells you that you
you're not going to be equipped to do it
you know I would want to be told that
but you just you're going to have to
Avail yourself certain resources before
you do it if you can't then why are you
trying to risk money and what kind of
money are we talking about because you
can't pay for the
resources would you scraping by just to
get the funded account challenges paid
for and just hoping on a wing in a
prayer that you're going to be
profitable you're already starting the
game off wrong like you're you're
building it up to something that's going
to have to be an Olympic feat and then
you're wondering why you're struggling
and it's why you're rushing and you're
feeling fomo I have to do something
because I need this work I can't afford
to trade that's really what what you're
saying so if you can't afford to trade
then you can't afford
success that's that's what you're saying
you don't want to either do something to
afford the resources and the time
invested in learning how to do it
correctly versus someone that is willing
to do that that's what makes this hard
especially as a as an educator as a
mentor because students want to hear
you're going to be successful and don't
take
no for an
answer sometimes it's going to be no for
a lot of you and it's going to be
outside my capability to to assist you
or yours for the time being doesn't mean
forever that some people in other
countries just don't have the resources
to do it and I don't always have an
answer for
them and they're always seeking somebody
else that's going to promise them that
and then end up finding that it's not
not happening for them
that's unfortunately the realities of
this
stuff so anyway what I was saying
earlier as we were breaking down here
and we were working off of
this I wanted to go back to that one
minute chart and I wanted to see how we
were going to
use this candle remember that high that
low here didn't even get down to it so
we weren't even to get down to the body
of that count or even make them attempt
to go below it we do have cell side
building Bel these relative equal lows
here here large liquidity resting below
here but now imagine if you were trying
to sell
short thinking that okay it's taking the
stops it's taking the stops now it's
really taking the stops but that Gap
it's got to fill it it's got to fill it
I hurt myself a lot doing
that eventually you you learn that this
is not something I want I am not willing
to buy it this thing can go up to
18,900 today yeah I don't care I don't
care I'm not willing to pay that price
because if I pay that price am I going
to be comfortable holding that position
I'm not going to be hold I'm not going
because it goes against the very
principle that I trade on I have to buy
discount this is an expensive premium
price in an environment that is being
manipulated because we have two big
impactful news drivers the PPI and the
CPI
number and for a new student hearing
that it sounds like well you're you're
just making excuses because you can't
you can't buy I can I can tell
you where it created the setups and you
can see them yourself I'm not willing to
take that trade and I get a lot of that
question a lot like how do you filter
out the times where you want to be a
buyer or seller when prices is doing
certain things like for instance it
opens and just keeps inching a little
bit higher inching a little bit higher
I'm not willing to take
that but I'm willing to wait for the
ones that work that yield $100,000 in
selling short on the one minute high of
the day and trading all the way down to
a deep discount that's the stuff I'm
willing to wait for I'm waiting for very
surgical precise things to align and if
they're not there I'm not here to try to
do something for the sake of impressing
every live stream like that that's not
I'm teaching my
son that's this is not a I'm going to
show you how smart I am that that's not
what that is the trade executions videos
that's what they for that they're for
that that's what that's for but when
we're in here watching price action and
I'm teaching I'm trying to teach you how
to manage yourself manage your
expectations of and in fear of missing
moves there's nothing to fear there's
literally nothing to fear there's no
regret about missing any kind of move if
it doesn't make sense and if it's too
expensive why buy it if it doesn't make
sense and it's too cheap why sell
short it's very simple logic that's not
complicated but that's what I live by I
live by that
principle and anyone else out there
could be taking trades and I'm sure I
have students in here I have people
probably on the other end of of what I
teach that's outside of what I teach
basically and they may be doing
something else but you didn't see them
take $100,000 that's Friday and you
ain't going to see them repeat it as
much as they want to say so in the
comment section I was on Twitter not one
of them said here's here's where I'm
going to do it it didn't didn't
happen lot of lot of hush on Twitter
Patrick willing was the only one talking
he wanted that
engagement how you doing Pat hope hope
Hawaii is lovely today
is there a time at which I would say I'm
not interested I'm not taking any trades
um given the current like the way it is
right here we had a large gap opening
and it's just digging into that Weekly
inversion fair value Gap at 11:00 11:15
I I would usually pull the plug if I
don't see something that makes sense
where it starts to break
because I'm my interest is
this I only need
it to get into this area here I don't
even need it to get down to the mid Gap
like I don't need that because I'm
certain that if we can get below this
low here it will give me a fair value
Gap it'll give me a bearish order block
it'll give me a a small bearish breaker
it'll give me a institutional or entry
drill it's something that I can key off
of either on a one minute chart or a
15-second chart and that difference
between this candle's
low to 3/4 or half of the distance
between the upper quadrant and lower
quadrant of that opening range
Gap that's what I'm sitting comfortably
waiting for and if it t if it keeps
going higher away from me fine I don't
care I'm not losing any money I don't
have any anxiety I have zero anxiety my
pulse is literally probably 60 beats or
lower I have no no sense of urg at all
none and your trading needs to be like
that if you're watching price or if
you're trading and you're hearing
yourself or you're feeling yourself a
lot of sympathetic
sigh you're doing all that what you're
doing that's your body's
involuntary response to
stress and when you want to bring
yourself down real quick if you're
feeling stress find a way to find your
yourself into a
yawn and if you're not physically doing
a
yawn pantomim one as best you
can stretch you stretch your arms out
and and do a yawn what that does it
immediately resets your nervous
system perfect example I I see it all
the time with my dogs if you have a dog
watch them now I'm me keep I'm going to
teach you something
here i' like to see it break down in
here now this
turn I'm going to see it uh make an
attempt to get through that and then if
it does we'll watch and see if we can
get into here because this is the this
is the area where I'm hunting I don't
care about being all the way up in here
it's not necessary but if you have a
dog and the dog goes to its bed or
wherever it wants to rest watch what
it'll do it'll lay down and then it'll
it will always do this every single time
the dog will do this it'll go
and then it's 3 4 seconds it's asleep
immediately what's it doing it's
resetting its nervous system it doesn't
know it wants to do it it's just been
created by God to do that it's designed
to do that well when we're
tired what are we doing we're forcing
ourselves to stay awake and then what is
our body doing as a response to
that you
yawn just that I already feel even more
relaxed if you don't believe me try it
if you're having anxiety if you feel
like you're missing something you're
having fomo stretch yourself think about
how good it feels to yawn it's very
relaxing it's satisfying but what's
actually happening is is your Vagas
nerve is being stimulated which is a
nerve that runs down from your brain
behind your ear down yourid of your neck
and it lays literally like a web across
all your major organs so when you're
stressed it affects all your major
organs and that's why you feel terrible
when you're in anxiety attack or panic
and then you start feeling the body
symptoms that cortisol which is the
chemical that's released after
adrenaline is in your bloodstream and
the whole time if you don't have coping
mechanisms to counteract that you're not
going to trade with a clear mind you're
not going to be able to manage your
emotions you're not going to be able to
manage your the physiological stress
that you're placing on yourself and if
you continuously stay in that you will
eventually have heart attacks you'll
have you'll have strokes you'll have
things that are going to make you
physically ill
so you have to relax take a deep breath
and then when you think your lungs are
completely full try to suck in a little
bit more air so it's
like that's the
emptiness at least twice the end amount
of time that you breathe in slowly your
exhale has to be twice as long and it's
hard to do it in the beginning if you're
having a panic attack it's really really
hard to do but that will immediately
reset your nervous system and cancel out
your anxiety
attack when I was having bouts with high
blood pressure um that
was a physiological response to having a
vertigo attack I only had one attack of
it but I was thinking am I stroking out
because my dad's had strok his father
died of a stroke um heart disease in my
family and diabetes is in my family my
blood sugar is fine my blood work is
perfect my heart rate is like an athlete
my blood pressure when I was
contemplating I was going through
something that was leading to that my
blood pressure was skyrocketing high
like dangerous levels but then I
remembered that okay if I go to the
emergency room and they do all the
checks and balances on me and everything
is as it should be CAT scans
EKGs like everything they did all the
work and literally the nurse says I've
never seen anybody with blood work
that's
perfect and you're 52 I said I will be
52 but that was that's what I needed to
hear and I didn't know what I was having
was a vertigal attack and I expected
that to happen again is what that was so
I was living in anxiety expecting that
next vertigo attack that never came but
I've learned how to now manage it should
I have another episode of it my mom had
one of them when she was younger and
never had another one but it happened
after me doing my inversion table I did
multiple sessions of going inverted and
I think I probably released one of those
calcium deposits from your in ear that
everybody has and that's what caused it
so I haven't inverted myself since then
and you know hopefully because I won't
plan on doing it anytime in the future
I'm watching the breaker here the high
the low and the high
the uh the anxiety of wondering am I am
I feeling the effects of being older and
it's my body really been because I wor I
wore my body down a lot with stress as a
younger man and that stuff has a
residual effect that comes and pays
dividends later on so I'm teaching this
to you now because you may not be
thinking that it's it's something you
need to worry about but you
do and by being able to reset instantly
God's given us the ability to
immediately reset our nervous system and
once I started applying all that again
my blood pressure would be 176 180 over
120 and then five minute breathing of
slow
inhales when you feel like your inhales
at its fullest capacity then try to suck
in a little bit more in and hold it 4
seconds and then Le it at least it has
to be at least twice as long as it took
you to inhale and it's it's not easy to
do it feels like you ain't breathing
enough but you really
are all right we're digging down into
that low
now and if you take your time with your
exhales if your exhales are slower than
your
inhales you're act you're
activating the side of your nervous
system that allows you to relax
it's real easy for a human being to
activate its fight or
flight stress uh someone comes up you
think they're going to punch you or if
you get hit if you have an accident
something scary happens to you
immediately your pulse goes up you get
an adrenaline injection and the Creator
gave us that ability to be able to fight
or flight run away or fight your
your your senses are heightened because
of the adrenaline your to use more
strength and reserves and your muscles
than you usually call for so it's so
easy to get in that state and if you
live in that state as a traiter that is
constantly just trying to chase
something because you don't put the work
in trying to make a model try to
discipline yourself you will condition
yourself to always go into that fight
ORF flight feeling that sensation
of I in I'm in emergency no you're not
you're tricking yourself telling
yourself you're always in an emergency
and you wonder why you're always
stressed out
but that goes away
instantaneously once you understand how
to control your breath and your breath
controls your pulse and your pulse
controls
adrenaline and then cortisol if cortisol
releases in your body you got about 20
to 30 minutes before that stuff Burns
off you'll have fidgetiness you'll have
nervousness and shakes maybe you'll feel
like you're sick to your stomach and you
just don't know what to do and you feel
like you're going to pass out all these
symptoms are are response to cortisol
being in your body but anxiousness
starts with the adrenaline and the way
you avoid having that ever occur in your
trading is having a model knowing what
what are you looking for what are you
waiting for if you don't know what
you're waiting for you're waiting for a
jump scare remember the big Trend that
used to be on YouTube all these jump
scare videos my kids love them and I
told them I said you know you love it
right now but when you get into the real
world and you're expecting the the
things that happen in this world to be
smooth and you have flat tires um a
breakup in a relationship a health scare
you know you won't appreciate those
things man it's it's a carnival ride
right now but in trading you don't want
a carnival ride you want it to be boring
absolutely boring I'm watching the
15c fair value Gap
here I'd like to see it stay heavy and
all
that but you have the ability to reset
your nervous system and it cancels out
any
[Music]
anxiety because you have to first stop
the pumping of the adrenally and you
have to stop the cortisol releasing in
your bloodstream cortisol is your stress
hormone you keep pumping that into your
body every single trading day you're
going to have heart disease you're going
to have hardening of the arteries
because when cortisol is released in
your bloodstream the way your body
repairs it is it lays down cholesterol
inside your arteries and your blood
vessels and if you keep doing that and
no on top of that you eat unhealthy
Chipotle you eat all this fast food
garbage you don't eat clean you are
going to have health
deteriorate and you want to be able to
sit here comfortably and calmly not
worrying about what what you should be
doing because you you should already
know what you're doing waiting for a
setup that's based on logic that you've
worked on and framed without any
necessity about being right being right
is not what my goal is I'm not teaching
you to be right I said I saw somebody on
Twitter give this real long bloviated uh
explanation or expose about what they
think about I'm teaching or how I trade
or how I try to cultivate uh the
mindsets of my students I'm not teaching
you to be right I in fact I've said the
opposite it's not important about being
right it's important to be in control of
yourself and it's important to know what
your model is know it in a written form
know what it looks like graphically like
a diagram what does it look like in
price action draw it out if you can't
draw it out then you don't know what it
is you can't recognize it and it may not
look exactly like it would in in price
action but to someone that trades we
would understand exactly what that is
but someone that's not a Trader wouldn't
understand what you're
drawing but controlling your breath and
controlling your thoughts if you're
constantly telling yourself I'm going to
miss a move oh man I'm losing all the
time this isn't worth it why am I
putting myself through this you're
basically telling yourself you're in an
emergency and why are you surprised when
you have adrenaline dump in you and then
you have cortisol release in you and
then you start feeling the physical
symptoms of full-blown panic
attack trust me if you've never had a t
attack it's a very scary feeling but as
soon as you know that it's just that and
it's not something like a medical
emergency you can immediately turn it
off and you have these these the easiest
way to stop it is slow your
breath your exhales have to be at least
twice the length and time that your
inhales are slow it
down you can do things like box
breathing um the best thing I do for me
and box breathing doesn't work for
everybody but I usually do a a four to
five second slow inhale and then when I
feel like I have my lungs at full
capacity I I do that one more little
sniff to get the last piece of of empty
space in my lungs and I hold it for four
seconds and when you first f it three
times you're there you go that's what
I'm looking for right there now we can
watch below this
low I change that
[Music]
to blue one that we can see it over here
on the two different time frames so this
line here this blue line is this line
here on the 15sec chart over here and
this is the upper quadrant of the
opening range Gap that's this over here
on the one minute chart you see
that in this good this is good
information and there's no books out
here with this stuff they're not going
to tie it together with trading and how
to manage yourself that's why I said
that there's no there's no good trade
psychology book out there as much as
everybody loves Mark Douglas's book it's
good for what it is but it doesn't it
doesn't it doesn't do it for you really
not really not it didn't do it for me
let's say it that way I think it's more
fair statement for me to say it that
way and then we'll do uh we'll annotate
the mid Gap here
[Music]
but Stress and Anxiety you can turn that
off immediately boom just like that it
starts by controlling your breath and
your thoughts while you're slowing your
breath down you're thinking positive
you're reminding yourself that there is
no there's no emergency nothing's
forcing you to take a trade today you
don't have to take a trade today you
don't have to do that you don't have to
trade every fluctuation you don't have
to do that but you're telling yourself
you do when you don't so I would very
like to see um if it can touch that
64.75 level um or get in not not it
doesn't have to touch it but if you
notice that same
64.75 level has a little Gap in there on
the 15sec chart I'd like to see it bump
this candlestick's high right here on
the on that one just to hit that and
then see if we can roll over from that
that'd be neat to study
the uh the effects of doing things that
you don't fully understand how to do is
a scary thing and then we add to it that
the embarrassment of not being right or
losing money if you're wrong um the the
peer pressure of other people saying
you're not good enough you're not the
right sex to be trading only guys can do
it good you all these things can
compound in your mind and it can create
and Foster this self defeated mindset
it's real easy to talk yourself out of a
good thing and into a scary situation
that really isn't scary but you've
convinced yourself that it
is and that heaviness of fear and
anxiety comes over top of you and
nobody as good as I am I I can't
function if I lose my train of thought
if I get stressed out perfect example
911 I was stuck in a huge position in
the
S&P and I was teaching an individual how
to trade through Internet relay
chat his name was George Lux and he's a
photographer he lived in Virginia I
don't know if he still lives there now
but um that's an inversion I'm sorry not
invers that's say institutional entry
drill right there on the one minute
[Music]
chart I came back from taking my son
Cody to
school and
when I came in the TV had the the
airplane first airplane had hit it I
thought it was a movie and I wasn't
upset by that because I thought I was
just watching
commercial and then when I watched the
second plane
hit that was that was my first real
panic attack I was like where are my
kids where's my wife like I I I wanted
everybody home
immediately and I I couldn't get out of
the market because they didn't open the
market up that day and I was stressed
about that
and it was just a terrible
feeling I've had smaller
incidents or I bet a lot of money and it
didn't perform it like I wanted it to or
it moved like I would try to trade ahead
of the CPI numbers and the PPI numbers
and fomc's and the non-firm payroll and
I would be very large bets not fearful
of it at all but then as soon as it
would be repriced against me I would
that's gone the money's gone and I'm
dealing with that anxiety that panic and
I would sit there and try to wrestle
through it and instead of saying okay
it's
happened I'm not
dead it's just money and I did it wrong
so there is no emergency it's just like
anything else you go to a doctor and you
get a shot not that shot that
everybody's probably regretting now but
the point is is you get an injection
of something some kind of you know
medicine you need it only hurts for a
second but my wife she has terrible
anxiety around IVs and whatnot and I
have no anxiety over that
stuff the level of
fear and fomo that you're going to feel
is going to be directly related to the
expectations that you hold over yourself
if you want extremely high output and
results and you're not equipped with a
model you're not equipped to
have a
well-rounded model that you can
anticipate seeing and forming and you
know when it usually forms what time of
day does it form how does it behave in
price action if you don't have those
things your anxiety is going to be
through the
roof and if you're good at hiding it in
your own social media you know that's
terrible too because you're lying to
yourself the people online they not feel
what you're feeling but you're feeling
it so institutional Oro in on the one
minute
chart watch this little section right in
here it's all part of this move here I
like to see the second lower half of
that keep price at Bay see if it stays
heavy and then we can see if it runs
down
into the mid
Gap but if you want me to do a v i can
do a very short video on how to uh
manage anxiety and stress while in
trades or in
trading um it's it it's very very useful
information
um I I just don't I I don't have another
person out there I can point to and say
go watch this guy or gal it's a it's a
collection of things I learned things
from a woman uh named lucenda
Basset attacking anxiety I bought her
her whole course it was kind of
expensive back in the day but uh you can
read her book you can go to Library
actually get you have to pay for it but
the uh the information and the coping
skills learned I learned in that book
helped me know that there was a way out
of living with
it but when you start putting yourself
in high stressful uh conditions like
trading like it is like it's bound to
happen and you may not even realize that
it's anxiety you
just feel overwhelmed and it's
terrifying the first few times that it
happens very first time you feel like
you're
dying and then the second time he feels
like this is going to be worse than the
other time it happened and that feeds
that whole experience and makes it
worse it's a terrible thing to live with
it I I lived with it for a long time and
it developed into aor phobia I was AF
have any stimuli around me it made me
close up and it caused my relationship
as a as a father and a
husband it was it was horrible very very
horrible
watching that 15sec chart here we
institutional Oro entry drill here and
mid Gap is down here then again that's
this level it's half of the Gap that set
up this move from Friday's settlement
price and the opening up here see how
we're using that upper quadrant level
there so had a fair value Gap here
closed in half the Gap worked it here
went
lower you hear any kind of anxiet in me
describing it any sense of dependency
like I have to be right
no it's same old stuff all the time
every single day and when you realize
that these things can repeat you know
how to wait for the setups to form and
you control yourself you don't try to
predict the euphoric moment of when it
gets to your target you just let it do
what it's going to do because until the
trade closes in your in your favor
you're not you're not profitable you're
not technically quote unquote right so
trying to live in that moment where
you're watching a level that you're
hoping it gets
to try not to live in that moment ahead
of its delivery because what you're
trying to do is is you're trying to
escape the uncomfortable uncertainty of
is it really going to go where I want it
to go you have to be indifferent to it
you got to just relax and let it go
where it's going to go that way if it's
going to give you indications that it's
not going to go you're going to be more
receptive to it you'll be able to see
that
versus hoping and praying and panic and
just it's a Tor it's torment is what it
is when you're in a winning trade and
you don't have a model that's
torment and if you've ever had a time
where you made money either trading real
money or a demo account and or a funded
account
challenge or funded account any any any
degree of of where your outcome is being
measured for the B of being right or
wrong with monetary reward or clout
Associated to
it you have the vested interest in being
right at the end of it and your target
your your take profit is that report
card it's the measurement of you being
correct and if you hold your trades to
that measurement every single time while
you're in them versus is the market
doing everything that would allow me to
trust this
continuing that's what you're constantly
feeding yourself is it doing everything
that is indicating that it would still
be okay despite it not going as quickly
as I would like to see it go to because
that's a part of development that's very
very hard to articulate as a as a
teacher is letting the trade pan out and
not wrestling with it not trying to
force I got to just get I just wish it
just let me get my target cuz I can get
away from this I'm I'm worn out because
you don't have to manage
yourself you're you're discovering that
you aren't equipped to be trading with
the
outcome being so impactful it takes
money from you if you're
wrong but you don't know what it feels
like to be on a trade where you're
actually
winning because you don't know why the
trade's winning and you're afraid to get
it out of it and you're afraid that if
you get out at your takeprofit
what if it goes more or what if it goes
V me right now and I could close it when
I'm up $3,000 or whatever the amount
would be so when you have these things
going through your mind they're all
distractions that's exactly what a neoy
is experiencing a neoy is always worried
about the things that they shouldn't be
worried about instead of focusing on the
things that they should be which is
watching price is it behaving is it
supporting the underlying narrative that
put you into the trade now if you start
at square one where you don't have a
model you just impulsively chase price
you shouldn't be surprised that you have
anxiety you shouldn't be surprised that
you're uncomfortable being in the tree
because you don't know what you're
looking for you don't know what you're
waiting for you're not looking for
anything that you've measured in the
past so why should you have any surprise
about why you're feeling uncertainty
that's now turned into an adrenaline
release and then now cortisol released
and you're in full-blown panic which
paralyzes you you ever have that U it's
called the gambler's
numbness you've lost a lot of money
you're at the verge of blowing your
account you're blowing your funded
account you
or you just did and if you had more
money in the account you'd still trade
again and not feel
anything that's a terrible experience to
be in because you completely unplugged
the rational thinking part of you it's
just like you're it's almost like being
catatonic you just you're just pushing
the button you don't care what the
outcome is you just feel like you have
to push the button that's Insanity as a
Trader I've experienced that a lot as a
20-year-old I was in Shell Shock when I
lost lots of money that I didn't
have I didn't have that kind of money I
had to work very hard to get these
things scraped up to put into news
accounts and when I blew them it it
was it was bad it was really
bad and I didn't have the skills I have
now I don't I don't have the ability to
to wrestle into subjection
the the intrusive thoughts the W if
thinking what if it does this and what
if it does
that if you don't have your model
defined and you don't know what makes
that trade set up viable why should it
form where you expect it to go in and
take a trade why should it even be doing
any of that stuff if you don't have
experience collecting that information
that data by watching old price moves
that have already completed getting a
large collection of that Caleb and
that's what we're doing when we do these
end of the day observations they I'm
annotating the chart with what I see and
what I have watched with real- time
price action these are things that I was
measuring and looking at as price was
delivering because that's how I read
price I want you as my son to learn how
to do it that way now you're going to
have your own little things in all the
things that I'm annotating and your eyes
going to jump to something that says
that's the setup that I feel I can see
it easy like I can see it forming I can
see it developing all the time and it
has these same characteristics that
repeat over and over and over again when
you have that that's an epiphany that's
an aha moment that's a I see something
I've never saw there before and it's
exciting and whatever that is for any of
you listening that's where you first
start you start there we're inside that
little inefficiency here I like to see
it invert uh not inversion I like to see
it create a institutional order which is
a partial fill of that and then dump
down into the mid
Gap the
um it's very liberating when you have
number one control over yourself and
that is going to be acquired by you
having a model that you've seen in Old
moves that repeats over and over and
over again now it may not form every
single day for you you may not be able
to find it every single day but if it
happens three
times four times a week that's a
wonderful model but if you work in these
lower time frames which is kind of like
what I'm forcing Caleb's perspective
today with is that there's lots of
opportunities and you need not chase
price you need not chase the expensive
premium pricing that they are throwing
to the public they're literally just
throwing slop out there into the open
mouths of just retail traders that just
simply say you know it's probably going
to keep going up bro like I I gotta buy
it I'm not trying to do that I don't
want to do that it doesn't make any
sense for me to pay extra money for
something I can know I can get
cheaper and I only have that
understanding is because I've been doing
this for a very long time I've collected
lots of charts I've annotated charts and
I did lots of back testing I did lots of
forward walk testing and tape reading
without pushing any buttons and then I
did demoing paper trading for a long
long time which was back in the day
where I would just simply write down I
got in hypothetically at this price on a
piece of graph paper and then where the
highest high and the lowest was I would
do what my draw down would be and then
what my uh profit Target would be how
long it took me to do that and I con I
conditioned myself that way you have all
these resources of doing demo trading I
didn't have that when I first came up
everything was Antiquated and and
archaic and everything was written down
and scribbled in and you have the
dynamic privileges really that people
like myself where we we would handdraw
our charts like we had that was our only
alternative like they until they came up
with things like uh you know super
charts and meta stock and and things
like that everybody did it one way which
was they made their own charts they drew
it out on graph paper or they subscribed
to services like price charts and or crb
chart and they they gave you a chart
book that had some of the data but then
you were then you're responsible to do
the rest all by yourself every single
day and there you go there's your half
Gap so is it happening in the first 30
minutes no but it did trade down to Mid
Gap did it give a fair value Gap in
institutional overflow entry drill some
kind of Premium I'm sorry some kind of
yeah some kind of premium array to get
short between this low and that upper
quadrant to get down to here yes
institutional overflow entry Jo there
delivered you're never going to be short
of supply of setups once you know what
you're doing
folks there's no reason zero reason for
you to have any anxiety about missing
moves feeling anxious about chasing
price when it was doing all these things
up
here everything was just a story time
just sit back and let it tell you what
it's doing relax let it really prove
that it wants to take a run below the
initial lows formed
here now think about that how can I
explain what I just did here in a book I
can't that's why I'm teaching a lot of
lessons like this that cannot be
articulated in a book there's no way
that I could just give you what I just
gave you here in a book and you get it
you can't you have to watch the
candlesticks paint you got to see what
it's doing on a 15-second
chart remember I told you I was watching
this up in here there's inefficiency and
halfway part of that right there that's
this and we want to see it roll over and
get heavy go back it's in the live
stream folks I I was not trying to be
long
today and it's boring to
me and that's not a brag that's just the
fact it's boring to me I can sit out
here every single day and call every
major move every single one of
them but not every single one of those
moves are a trade that I want to put
money on I don't want to trade just for
the sake of
trading that's maturity that's a mindset
that you should aspire to have that
means you have control over yourself you
have a measure of self-control that's
alien to 99% of every Trader even those
have been trading profit for a long time
because if you're a successful Trader
say say you can take down pretty
big uh
paydays the likelihood of you being a
junkie and you're all hopped up on
goofballs because you know you can take
big money you can take it so you're like
a big game hunter you don't need to kill
that
animal you don't need to go over there
and take down an elephant to eat it
you're not starving you just want to do
it because you're hopped up on goofballs
because you're willing to kill something
like that because you're a psychopath
you want to do those types of things you
in my in my opinion You're a murderer
and you're satisfying that desire to do
those types of
things
but you probably still wrestle with this
impulsiveness of that you want to get a
fix you maybe have made like lots of
money maybe you don't need to trade ever
again like me I don't I I don't never
ever need to take a trade again ever
money is not an issue for me but I love
doing this I love it's my entire life
and now because my son's interest in it
is like I'm really like I'm keyed up
like I'm I'm ready to do it clearly
because I want my son to do
well but
it's very hard to understand how to
control yourself because in the
beginning you might look at me you might
look at other people and whether they're
taking trades live in front of you
calling signals that work or they have
Broker statements or they won
competitions whatever the Catalyst may
be that causes you to have faith in this
individual whatever that is you don't
have Blind Faith and that's good that's
good skepticism is absolutely crucial
have it with me and have it with
everyone else because if you just
blindly follow the logic that anybody
spouts out their mouth and you've never
tested it never back tested it never
looked and investigated the claims of
what this information should or should
not do
you're not really informed and you're
just basically blindly following either
what everybody else is says well this is
what you should do because I seen it I
seen him do this I seen her do that did
you ever see
it did you ever sit through a full live
stream where I've explained the logic
why it shouldn't do these things and why
I'm not interested in this and what I'm
waiting for and then watch it pan out
like today
again I do this every single time but
because you want to Signal because
you're new you just want to see I want
to see I want to see ICT take a trade I
want to see this I if there's nothing
for me to take a trade on I'm not taking
a
trade
period if there's something in the price
action that I want to call attention to
for the purposes of teaching my son
that's what I'm here primarily
for but everything that I say outlined
to you happened in real time right in
front of you and you can't escape it and
it's for your ification Caleb it's for
you to understand that are you are you
going into this to be in control of
yourself or are you going to let the the
E and flow of what the markets take and
give to you dictate how you're going to
behave and how you're going to think
because if you're going to let them do
that you're going to be in a sea that is
nothing but storms and waves and you're
never going to be at peace that means
you're never making enough money you're
not taking enough trades you're not
risking enough because you're constantly
doing what you're trying to satisfy that
that never is
quenched contrast that with I'm going to
wait for my setup that looks like this
and it forms around this
basis what what what am I talking about
when I say
that well what did I explain to you
today we had a very large range gap
opening I'm already past my time but I'm
going see if I can get done by 11
o' I also know just let me take take a
moment to say this and I appreciate all
of you that have left the comments
initially I thought you were just
complaining to me saying the videos are
too long and blah blah blah blah I
understand now why the specific
requirements for some of you that the
videos not be too long and plus Caleb
said it's this is a lot dad like it's it
comes home from work he doesn't have the
ability to go through all of them each
day so he's lagging behind so because he
said so that's why I'm pulling back the
the time also in addition to I wasn't
aware that YouTube doesn't do close
captions after the video goes over like
three hours or something to that effect
so I'm going to try to be diligent about
keeping them at 90 minutes or less and
you're welcome for that but I I wasn't
aware okay if I would have known that
the Clos caption feature was being
impeded because of the length of the
video I would have stopped the stream
and started another one it still would
have been long but I would have stopped
it so it's not that I'm trying to make
it harder for all of you that are in
other countries I apologize it's it was
not something it's
intended but I I I'm aware of what it's
doing and what it can't do and it's a
limitation that I'm going to have to
operate in so if we're limiting it to be
done by 11 o'c ICT then it should it
should answer that
call so but today I described to you
that we had that very large opening
range
Gap here which you have to you have to
see it with rth which is regular trading
hours I mean I would have paid money for
session like today like you have no idea
the the the stuff I put myself through
it was ridiculous but I didn't have any
other choice like there was nobody else
out there that had this information or
if they did they weren't teaching it
right
so and I appreciate the folks that take
the time to write a comment and say you
know I don't have to be doing
this and I'm sharing
it I I really appreciate that because
the entitlement level today is off the
chain and it's it's disgusting this see
how dude you talk too much get to the
point like you're getting something you
never would have learned before and I'm
making millionaires with this
information they're they're using the
same logic and you're you're coming in
the comment section complaining about
how you want it better and faster and
and differently go somewhere else but
this is the opening range Gap and since
we opened up here I told you we were
going to work inside that Weekly
inversion fair value Gap and you don't
want to try to pick the highs because
there was a lot of range where it could
have went up into mid part
of that Weekly inv fa value gap which is
essentially around here so you got to
let it prove to you that it's done
enough and break down so we were
watching this low here it did so and I
gave you the framework about how this
Gap below this low here I wanted to see
a premium array form
between this low and this upper quadrant
between this little area right in here
that's where my setup would
form my pdra would form in this area
right
here institutional orfl entry
drill over here it breaks lower in that
area comes right back up in here boom
and I told you moov right there go watch
the the live stream during the
10:30ish to 10:36 time I said I'm
watching this right here when I do that
that's a that whenever I say when I'm
watching something during the live
streams that's a wonderful opportunity
for you that are watching live or when
you watch the old recording stop and
pause the video and screenshot that
think about what you see in price what
it might do after that moment
Caleb and you got one of the best
learning opportunities because it's like
okay Freeze Frame boom why is he
interested what should it do and then
like I said at that time I said we want
to see it roll over from there and stay
heavy and work towards that mid Gap does
it do it look at the bodies look at the
bodies how it be behaved inside that
little inversion fairb I'm why am I
saying inversion fairb the uh see that
little volum in Balance there we have to
make sure we keep that there as
well there's that halfway point that
pric is uh 18,
583.20
84 84.75%
those things but I have to let it do its
manipulation I don't want to force
myself to be in something I told you
this is all building in a premium it's
engineering liquidity every time it made
a new high someone's taking the other
side of that when it stops being taken
so buy stops Above This High absorbed
there shorts smart money are selling
that that buy stop and they're buying a
breakout retail who wants to be the
other side of that smart money they're
selling to those buy stops here and then
above here boom they're selling short to
those buy stops again all of this is
building in a premium and they're
selling it to the
public I'm waiting for it to get down to
here to give the setup to trade down to
the mid
Gap and there it is small little
retracement digging down so now you want
to look at the lower quadrant and then
I'm going to close the stream out okay
because I've overstated my welcome
here's the lower quadrant so you want to
watch and see does it trade into that
that price level right here
but if you want to um leave a comment I
I read every comment even though you
guys can't see them I see them rude ones
or or people that are just stupid I I
just make you invisible to me you think
you're leaving comments and you'll see
your comment but I can't see them and no
one else can see them obviously but U if
you want to see a video I can't promise
I'll do it during the week I might do it
this coming weekend if you all have an
interest in it but if you want to learn
how to uh manage your stress while in
trading and how to keep yourself from
having pay attacks and also how to keep
yourself focused so it prevents
adrenaline effect or cortisol effect
these are all real things and if you
ever traded long enough um you felt that
you probably didn't understand it but
it's absolutely 100% controllable and
you can be like a like a a Buddhist monk
like you're impervious to it like you're
completely devoid of all of that anxiety
and and wood have thinking I could
probably do it in a 30 minute video it's
not a lot it's a lot of uh preparation
mindset wise and some breathing
techniques and things to focus and how
to how you are supposed to reset your
nervous system and it can be done
instantaneously like bang just like that
like it's instantly corrected perfectly
and to me in my opinion I've been doing
it for 32 years and having gone through
extreme
anxiety it is one of the most worthwhile
investments in discovering skill sets
that any Trader should have in their
repertoire because you are going to feel
stress you're going to feel stress in
the trade or you're going to feel
afterwards when you lost a lot of money
and if you focus on that stuff it's
going to mess you up and you won't
progress further efficiently and
correctly so if you like I said if you
want to have something like that um just
give me a um a comment s please you know
lay it on me and I'll get to it probably
uh either Sunday or Saturday maybe I'll
do a an audio kind of like a shotgun
Saturday on on the YouTube channel
because it's it's basically going to me
just talking about those coping skills
and how to overcome anxiety and trading
and all that the real psychology behind
it that that's what that's really what
it is I I flirted with the idea of
having you know five books you know
three technical one's a fiction about a
traiter that n may have heard and then
the fifth one was going to be I flirted
with the idea I don't I'm not sure we'll
see how the books are received by all of
you but the uh the fifth one be would be
like a a trade psychology book like the
and bolts here's what matters most and
there it is but
uh I enjoyed the time with us together
over the charts hopefully you learned
something today um it's probably isn't
going to be one of the barn burner type
uh lectures or whatever but I promise
you once you start trading with real
money and you feel all the the problems
that I talked about here fomo China
chase price losing money and anxiety
attacks and stress and all that stuff
you're going to appreciate this kind of
video a whole lot more later on in the
beginning when you haven't even done
anything that stressed out you just want
me to get to the point the point is is
you don't know the point that's the
point you don't even know what you're
doing yet and I'm trying to prepare your
mind for that Caleb and until I talk to
you next time be safe